everyone welcome to another video and
then our episode of ask Yuri hope you're
having a great day I'm about to make it
better hopefully I'm answering questions
stable running how to improve your
running address so here's a question
you're sometimes I have trouble reading
the wrong question here's next here's
the right way
here we have a 16 year old male and
grade 10 that weighs almost 200 pounds
summer I want to get in shape and lose a
healthy amount of weights that I can
play soccer for my high school next year
I want to be able to run a thug getting
higher in the first 10 seconds and I
just want to be healthier fit so you
have any advice well first off I'm not
sure how tall this individual is with
200 pounds you know unless you're like
6-2 6-3 is a little heavy so first thing
you want to do obviously is from an
exercise perspective is you want to get
move and just build a general Lobeck
base go for a couple lighter runs right
in your talk test case as I call it in a
test based on which basically means you
can run while carrying a conversation so
if you're running outside and you can
like talk to the person beside you or
just talk to yourself that's a good
thing if you're a huffing and puffing
like okay I know you're tight that space
on your morale zone a little bit higher
in intensity which is good but maybe for
a little bit later so just start off
with you know two to three runs a week
twenty to thirty minutes whatever you
can handle in your talked a space so
just go for a nice leg run outdoors on
the treadmill whatever it is okay
build your base do that from the truth
three weeks and then you want to start
adding in some minerals okay so you want
to build that base and you want to add
in some higher intensity interval
training runs into your and regime so a
typical for soccer for instance a
typical kind of interval training
protocol sincere in that again you want
to look at sport and train compartment
there's a change of pace and soccer
every five to six seconds so what you
can do for intervals as for instance if
you're jogging the outside just
accelerate for five seconds and then
continue to jock for maybe you know
after starting it out maybe do a
five-second acceleration 20-second
recover
recovery and what that's going to do is
it's going to start to train your body
to be able to run faster and train you
know different enzyme processes and
pathways to the body at different energy
systems to get used to running faster
and that change of pace
she's taking a marathon runner and
you're throwing a soccer game he's gonna
have a tough time with the change of
pace and that's that's something you
want to attend to so you can start off
with those kind of five you know
five-second accelerations and really
there's so many different combinations
of intervals that's I mean you really
can't go wrong you can then you know
build on that so you the goulds feel to
run faster for a longer period of time
so for instance you know five-second
accelerations maybe one with 20 seconds
with 30 second acceleration you know
close to a sprinting pace and then
recovering for you know one and a half
to two minutes depending again on how
your fitness level is improving in
general as you get fitter you can
lengthen the work interval and shorten
the recovery you know okay or just
really do one at a time so start off for
instance by working a little bit longer
so maybe thirty Seconds to minute
recovery repeat that for about 20
minutes then as we get fitter you can go
30 seconds one and a half minute
recovery again for 20 minutes as you get
fitter 30 seconds hard 1-minute recovery
so you're just shortening the recovery
time so there in fact change of pace is
happening sooner and that's a really
great way to especially for soccer
players and most athletes to build that
insurance and that quick acceleration
into their into their training so that's
that's a really basic way of doing it
and at the same time you can start
throwing things in like hills to develop
some better life strength and better
like power that's you're doing this
you're gonna notice that your way is
gonna start to fall off
most people with writing a structure
lose weight for the dramatic
because it is a higher impact
weight-bearing activity and it's not
another not an efficient human movements
which means they're going to burn a lot
of calories just by running so that's a
good thing and hopefully that's helped
do it if you need more help with you are
running workouts and you want to get in
great shape for soccer I highly
recommend using my treadmill trainer
iPod or any workouts the website is rafe
you're at my treadmill trainer calm a
number of these workouts I have our UFC
soccer team doing during our offseason
to get you know to keep them and get
them in great shape for our upcoming
season and it's one of the reasons that
our teams like fitness in the country
urine and your app again their iPod
based interval workout so you have me on
your headphones to tell you when the
speed up want to slow down you don't
have to think about anything so check
those out use them they're awesome
workouts and if you want to better your
running for soccer or just running in
general they will make a huge difference
and we're just to month week you run
faster farther and longer that's my
guarantee so hopefully that's helped you
it danced again for the question and
I'll see you in the next episode